Release 0.14.16 (#488)
smapiot/piral: docs/tutorials/23.2-monorepo-rush.md

4. *.gitignore* (from the second command, tells git which files to ignore)
5. *.travis.yml* (from the second command, configures the [Travis CI](https://www.travis-ci.com/) service)
6. *common* (from the second command, Rush stores all files it needs in there. Read more about this in Rush's [config file reference](https://rushjs.io/pages/advanced/config_files/))

Great! Now we need to configure rush by opening *rush.json* and performing the following steps:

- **Choose a package manager:** Search for `npmVersion` inside the *rush.json* file. You'll see that rush uses pnpm as a default. Since we only tried this with npm we uncomment the `npmVersion` line and comment the `pnpmVersion` line. You should also see if you have the latest npm version installed globally and set this version here. You can of course feel free to use your preferred package manager. Read more about those [here](https://rushjs.io/pages/maintainer/package_managers/).
- **Custom npm registry:** If you use a custom npm registry you might configure it in `common\config\rush\.npmrc`. Read more about this [here](https://rushjs.io/pages/maintainer/npm_registry_auth/).

> - **Folder structure:** Since we don't want to mix rush's files with my packages we add a folder "packages" in the root directory by running `mkdir tools`. All pilets and the app shell will live in their own folders directly inside the packages folder. In this scenario they are nested in a folder depth of 2 which is Rush's default. If you want do have a different structure you might need to configure `projectFolderMinDepth` and `projectFolderMaxDepth` inside *rush.json*. I'll just uncomment them being set to 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Folder structure:** Since we don't want to mix Rush's files with our packages, we add a folder "packages" in the root directory by running `mkdir tools`. All pilets and the app shell will live in their own folders directly inside the packages folder. In this scenario they are nested in a folder depth of 2 which is Rush's default. If you want to have a different folder structure you might need to configure `projectFolderMinDepth` and `projectFolderMaxDepth` inside *rush.json*. I'll just uncomment them being set to 2.
```

Reviewer: Actually, quick question. The doc says that we create a folder "packages", but the command says "mkdir tools", i.e. not "packages". Is that a mistake?

"app-shell": "1.0.0",
```

> The version should match the version inside `packages\app-shell\package.json`. This way Rush can find the app-shell package inside the monorepo and will just symlink the dependency to `packages\app-shell`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The version should match the version inside `packages\app-shell\package.json`. This way, Rush can find the app-shell package inside the monorepo and will symlink the dependency to `packages\app-shell`.
```

After adding new packages you sometimes need to run `rush update --purge --full` to really update all cache files.
:::

## Add a Blazor Pilet

> Since blazor pilets need some more settings we'll cover them here in more depth. Let's start by adding a `blazorwasm` project. To do so run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Blazor pilets need some more settings, we'll cover them here in more depth. Let's start by adding a `blazorwasm` project. To do so, run:
```

```sh
dotnet new blazorwasm -o .\packages\blazor-pilet
```

We should also add these two lines to the `.gitignore` file:

```
obj/
bin/
piral~/
```

> We now have a standard `blazorwasm` project. To convert it into a pilet we need to go through the following steps (you can read more about this in the [Piral.Blazor README](https://github.com/smapiot/Piral.Blazor)):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now have a standard `blazorwasm` project. To convert it into a pilet, we need to go through the following steps (you can read more about this in the [Piral.Blazor README](https://github.com/smapiot/Piral.Blazor)):
```

- Open `packages\blazor-pilet\blazor-pilet.csproj` and add the following inside the `PropertyGroup` section at the top:
    ```xml
    <PiralInstance>../app-shell/dist/emulator/app-shell-1.0.0.tgz</PiralInstance>
    <Monorepo>enable</Monorepo>
    ```
- Install the `Piral.Blazor.Tools` and `Piral.Blazor.Utils` NuGet packages.
- Rename *Program.cs* to *Module.cs*, and make sure to make the `Main` method an empty method.

> Now we need to prepare the Piral instance to be able to include blazor pilets with these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we need to prepare the Piral instance to be able to include Blazor pilets with these steps:
```

- Add the `blazor` dependency by running `rush add -p blazor` inside `packages\app-shell`
- Add the `piral-blazor` dependency by running `rush add -p piral-blazor` inside `packages\app-shell`

> - In `packages\app-shell\src\index.tsx` add the import `import { createBlazorApi } from 'piral-blazor';`
> - In `packages\app-shell\src\index.tsx` add `plugins: [createBlazorApi()], ` inside the `renderInstance` call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In `packages\app-shell\src\index.tsx`, add the import `import { createBlazorApi } from 'piral-blazor';`
- In `packages\app-shell\src\index.tsx`, add `plugins: [createBlazorApi()], ` inside the `renderInstance` call
```

> - You might want tu run `rush update --full --purge` just to be sure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You might want to run `rush update --full --purge` to ensure that all dependencies are correctly installed
```

- Rebuild the app-shell via `rushx build`

> Now its time to build the pilet. Change into `packages\blazor-pilet` and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now it's time to build the pilet. Navigate to `packages\blazor-pilet` and run:
```

```sh
dotnet build
```

> This will create JavaScript package for the blazor pilet in the `packages\piral~\blazor-pilet` folder. To make Rush aware of the new pilet we need to add it to the `projects` setting inside the *rush.json* file like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a JavaScript package for the blazor pilet in the `packages\piral~\blazor-pilet` folder. To make Rush aware of the new pilet, we need to add it to the `projects` setting inside the *rush.json* file like this:
```

```json
  "projects": [
    //...
    {
      "packageName": "blazor-pilet",
      "projectFolder": "packages/piral~/blazor-pilet"
    }
    //...
  ]
```

> Since the new pilet is now located inside a folder depth of three we need to set `projectFolderMaxDepth` inside `rush.json` to 3 like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the new pilet is now located inside a folder depth of 3, we need to set `projectFolderMaxDepth` inside `rush.json` to 3 like this:
```

```json
  "projectFolderMinDepth": 2,
  "projectFolderMaxDepth": 3,
```

Now run `rush update` to install the new pilet's dependencies.

> Finally cd into `packages\piral~\blazor-pilet` and run the new pilet via:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, navigate to `packages\piral~\blazor-pilet` and run the new pilet via:
```
